.\" Copyright (c) 2000  Andreas Tille <tille@debian.org>
.\"
.\" This manual page is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\" Foundation, Inc.,59 Temple Place - Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111-1307, USA.
.\"
.\" This manual page is written especially for Debian Linux.
.\"
.TH SPRUCH 6 "12/04/1999" "" "Manual for spruch"
.SH NAME
spruch \- deutsche fortune Spr\[:u]che
.br
regeln \- Bauernregeln
.SH SYNOPSIS
.BR spruch
.RB [ -x "] [" -aefilosw "] [" -n
.IR length "] ["
.B -m
.IR pattern "] [[" n% "] " file/dir/all ]
.br
.BR regeln " [" -iw "] ["
.B -m
.IR pattern "]
.SH BESCHREIBUNG
Die Skripte rufen
.IR fortune
mit
.TP
.B spruch
einer deutschen Spruchdatenbank
.TP
.B regeln
einer Datenbank witziger Bauernregeln
.TP
auf, falls die Variable \fBLC_ALL=de_DE\fR gesetzt ist.  Andernfalls wird \fBfortune (6)\fR mit der Standarddatenbank aufgerufen. Durch die Option \fI-x\fR kann die Benutzung der deutschen Spr\[:u]che unabh\[:a]ngig von den locale Einstellungen erzwungen werden.

.SH SIEHE AUCH
fortune.en(6)
	
.SH AUTHOR
Andreas Tille <tille@debian.org>
