.\" Copyright (c) 2000  Roland Rosenfeld <roland@debian.org>
.\"               
.\" This manual page is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\" 
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\" 
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\" Foundation, Inc.,59 Temple Place - Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111-1307, USA.
.\"
.\" This manual page is written especially for Debian Linux.
.\"
.TH SPRUCH 6 "July 2000" "Debian Project" "Debian GNU/Linux"
.SH NAME
spruch \- print a random German adage
.br
regeln \- print a random German peasant's maxim
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B spruch
.RB [ -x "] [" -aefilosw "] [" -n
.IR length "] ["
.B -m
.IR pattern "] [[" n% "] " file/dir/all ]
.br
.B regeln
.RB [ -iw "] ["
.B -m
.IR pattern ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The scripts call 
.B fortune (6)
with
.TP
.B spruch
  a German adage database 
.br
.TP
.B regeln
  database of funny German peasant's maxims, 
.br
.TP
if your locale settings point to \fB'de'\fR or \fB'de_DE'\fR . Otherwise \fBfortune (6)\fR is called with the default database. By using \fI-x\fR option you can enforce German cookies independent from the locale settings.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR fortune.en (6),
.BR locale (1).
.SH AUTHOR
.B spruch
was written by Andreas Tille <tille@debian.org>.
.PP
This manual page was created by Roland Rosenfeld <roland@debian.org>
for the Debian GNU/Linux system (but may be used by others).
